README.md, before:

[![Travis Status][trav_img]][trav_site]

Abstract Log
============

An micro log wrapper to implement production shims, loggers, etc.

The primary use case for this wrapper is for a project that needs to do _some_
logging but doesn't want to take dependencies on a specific logger (like
Bunyan, Winston, Good, etc.) or assume use in a specific environment (browser,
Node.js, etc.). And it is easily configured as a straight shim to do nothing
in the most lightweight manner possible.


### Installation

Install via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/abstract-log):

```
$ npm install abstract-log
```

or [bower](http://bower.io/search/?q=abstract-log):

```
$ bower install abstract-log
```


### Usage

Import the `AbstractLog` class into your code (via AMD, CommonJS, etc) and
use as a configurable logger. The basic abstraction is:

```js
var log = new AbstractLog(OPTIONS);

log.METHOD(MESSAGE_STRING, METADATA_OBJECT);  // Abstraction
log.warn("My message", { an: "object" });     // Example
```

The instance of an `AbstractLog` requires an `OPTIONS` object that defines the
actual methods available for the logger.

* **TODO**: Document initialization options.
* **TODO**: Also place options examples in each `AbstractLog(` call...
  https://github.com/FormidableLabs/abstract-log/issues/3

The underlying logger used by the abstraction ideally has:

* `METHOD`: A method like `warn`, `info`, `error` that takes typically two
  arguments.
* `MESSAGE`: A human-readable string, typically the first argument.
* `METADATA`: An structured JS object of metadata that is meant to be outputted
  as a JSON line and hopefully programmatically ingested and used later. The
  ideal use is any aspect of a log message that is a _metric_ like: database
  response time, number of database connections, timestamp, user id, etc.

#### AMD

```js
define(["abstract-log"], function (AbstractLog) {
  var log = new AbstractLog();
  log.info("Hello world!");
});
```

#### CommonJS

```js
var AbstractLog = require("abstract-log");
var log = new AbstractLog();
log.info("Hello world!");
```

#### VanillaJS

In your HTML:

```html
<!-- Option One: Minified -->
<script src="PATH/TO/abstract-log/dist/abstract-log.min.js"></script>

<!-- Option Two: Raw source -->
<script src="PATH/TO/abstract-log/abstract-log.js"></script>
```

In your JS:

```js
var log = new window.AbstractLog();
log.info("Hello world!");
```


### Build Integration

* **TODO**: Document initialization here?
  https://github.com/FormidableLabs/abstract-log/issues/3

* **TODO**: Document shimming.
  https://github.com/FormidableLabs/abstract-log/issues/1

* **TODO**: Document integration with (1) console, (2) bunyan
  https://github.com/FormidableLabs/abstract-log/issues/2


### Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md)

[trav_img]: https://api.travis-ci.org/FormidableLabs/abstract-log.svg
[trav_site]: https://travis-ci.org/FormidableLabs/abstract-log

Commit message:

More about the purpose and point of the logger.

README.md, after:

[![Travis Status][trav_img]][trav_site]

Abstract Log
============

An micro log wrapper to implement production shims, loggers, etc.

The primary use case for this wrapper is for a project that needs to do _some_
logging but doesn't want to take dependencies on a specific logger (like
Bunyan, Winston, Good, etc.) or assume use in a specific environment (browser,
Node.js, _both_ etc.). And it is easily configured as a straight shim to do
nothing in the most lightweight manner possible.

As an example, the main impetus for the creation of AbstractLog is for small
React components that have no other dependencies, want to log specific
information in the _browser_ **and** in Node.js on the _server_, and leave
the actual implementation of the logger up the consumer of the library code.


### Installation

Install via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/abstract-log):

```
$ npm install abstract-log
```

or [bower](http://bower.io/search/?q=abstract-log):

```
$ bower install abstract-log
```


### Usage

Import the `AbstractLog` class into your code (via AMD, CommonJS, etc) and
use as a configurable logger. The basic abstraction is:

```js
var log = new AbstractLog(OPTIONS);

log.METHOD(MESSAGE_STRING, METADATA_OBJECT);  // Abstraction
log.warn("My message", { an: "object" });     // Example
```

The instance of an `AbstractLog` requires an `OPTIONS` object that defines the
actual methods available for the logger.

* **TODO**: Document initialization options.
* **TODO**: Also place options examples in each `AbstractLog(` call...
  https://github.com/FormidableLabs/abstract-log/issues/3

The underlying logger used by the abstraction ideally has:

* `METHOD`: A method like `warn`, `info`, `error` that takes typically two
  arguments.
* `MESSAGE`: A human-readable string, typically the first argument.
* `METADATA`: An structured JS object of metadata that is meant to be outputted
  as a JSON line and hopefully programmatically ingested and used later. The
  ideal use is any aspect of a log message that is a _metric_ like: database
  response time, number of database connections, timestamp, user id, etc.

#### AMD

```js
define(["abstract-log"], function (AbstractLog) {
  var log = new AbstractLog();
  log.info("Hello world!");
});
```

#### CommonJS

```js
var AbstractLog = require("abstract-log");
var log = new AbstractLog();
log.info("Hello world!");
```

#### VanillaJS

In your HTML:

```html
<!-- Option One: Minified -->
<script src="PATH/TO/abstract-log/dist/abstract-log.min.js"></script>

<!-- Option Two: Raw source -->
<script src="PATH/TO/abstract-log/abstract-log.js"></script>
```

In your JS:

```js
var log = new window.AbstractLog();
log.info("Hello world!");
```


### Build Integration

* **TODO**: Document initialization here?
  https://github.com/FormidableLabs/abstract-log/issues/3

* **TODO**: Document shimming.
  https://github.com/FormidableLabs/abstract-log/issues/1

* **TODO**: Document integration with (1) console, (2) bunyan
  https://github.com/FormidableLabs/abstract-log/issues/2


### Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md)

[trav_img]: https://api.travis-ci.org/FormidableLabs/abstract-log.svg
[trav_site]: https://travis-ci.org/FormidableLabs/abstract-log
